We are as numb in our new electric world as the native involved in our literate and mechanical culture.

Youth instinctively understands the present environment&mdash;the electric drama. It lives mythically and in depth.

The mosaic form demands participation and involvement in depth, of the whole being, as does the sense of touch.

The age of writing has passed. We must invent a new metaphor, restructure our thoughts and feelings.

The new media are not bridges between man and nature&mdash;they are nature.

While people are engaged in creating a totally different world, the always form vivid images of the preceding world.

Societies have always been shaped more by the nature of the media by which humans communicate than by the content of the communication.

When the new technologies impose themselves on societies long habituated to older technologies, anxieties of all kinds result.

We have become like the most primitive Paleolithic man, once more global wanderers, but information gatherers rather than food gatherers. From now on the source of food, wealth and life itself will be information.

Today we live invested with an electric information environment that is quite as imperceptible to us as water is to a fish.

The role of the artist is to create an Anti-environment as a means of perception and adjustment.

Without an anti-environment, all environments are invisible.

The space of early Greek cosmology was structured by Logos—resonant utterance or word.

Until writing was invented, we lived in acoustic space, where the Eskimo now lives: boundless, directionless, horizonless, the dark of the mind, the world of emotion, primordial intuition, terror. Speech is a social chart of this dark bog.

Literate man, civilized man, tends to restrict and to separate functions, whereas tribal man has freely extended the form of his body to include the universe.

For tribal man, Space was the uncontrollable mystery. For technological man, it is time that occupies the same role.

Any new technology is an evolutionary and biological mutation opening doors of perception and new spheres of action to mankind.

Literacy, the visual technology, dissolved the tribal magic by means of its stress on fragmentation and specialization and created the individual.

The unique innovation of the phonetic alphabet released the Greeks from the universal acoustic spill of tribal societies.

Literacy, in translating man out of the closed world of tribal depth and resonance, gave man an eye for an ear and ushered him into a visual open world of specialized and divided consciousness.

There are no connections in resonant space. There are only interfaces and metamorphoses.

Speech structures the abyss of mental and acoustic space, shrouding the race; it is a cosmic invisible architecture of the human dark.

Native societies did not think of themselves as being in the world as occupants but considered that their rituals created the world and kept it operational.

Writing turned a spotlight on the high, dim Sierras of speech; writing was the visualization of acoustic space. It lit up the dark.

Prolonged mimesis of the alphabet and its fragmenting properties produced a new dominant mode of perception and then of culture.

Today, with all our technology, and because of it, we stand once more in the magical acoustical sphere of pre-literate man.

The ways of thinking implanted by electronic culture are very different from those fostered by print culture. Since the Renaissance most methods and procedures have strongly tended towards stress on the visual organization and application of knowledge.

The trivializing power of the new electronic media, the way in which they return us to the unified fields of the old oral cultures, to tribal cohesion and pre-individualist patterns of thought, is little understood. Tribalism is the sense of the deep bond of family, the closed society as the norm of community.

Today man has no physical body. He is translated into information, or an image.

Mass man is a phenomenon of electric speed, not of physical quantity.

When we put our central nervous system outside us we returned to the primal nomadic state.

The electronic age is a world in which causes and effects become almost interchangeable, as in music structures.

Unlike previous environmental changes, the electric media constitute a total and near-instantaneous transformation of culture, values and attitudes.

People in the new environments always produce the new perceptual modality without any difficulty or awareness of change. It is later that the psychic and social realignments baffle societies.

When you move into a new area, a new territory, and learn a new language, the language is not a new subject, it is an environment, it is total.

The existentialist trauma had a physical basis in the first electric extension of our nervous system.

Today we experience, in reverse, what pre-literate man faced with the advent of writing.

When the evolutionary process shifts from biology to software technology the body becomes the old hardware environment. The human body is now a probe, a laboratory for experiments.

Today, computers hold out the promise of a means of instant translation of any code or language into any other code or language.

At the very high speed of living, everybody needs a new career and a new job and a totally new personality every ten years.

Q: Do you feel a need to be distinctive and mass-produced?

Q: Are you in the groove? That is, are you moving in ever-diminishing circles?

Q: How often do you change your mind, your politics, your clothes?

The metropolis today is a classroom, the ads are its teachers. The traditional classroom is an obsolete detention home, a feudal dungeon.

Advertising is the art form of the 20th century.

Ads represent the main channel of intellectual and artistic effort in the modern world.

Bless advertising art for its pictorial vitality and verbal creativity.

The more you make people alike, the more competition you have. Competition is based on the principle of absolute conformity.

Q: Why is America the land of the overrated child and the underrated adult?

Q: How can children grow up in a world in which adults idolize youthfulness?

Q: What happens when the ad makers take over all the popular myths and poetry?

All advertising advertises advertising&mdash;no ad has its meaning alone.

School is the advertising agency which makes you believe you need the society as it is.

The only cool PR is provided by one’s enemies. They toil incessantly and for free.

Electric technology is directly related to our central nervous system so it is ridiculous to talk of what the public wants played over its own nerves.

Media are means of extending and enlarging our organic sense lives into our environments.

When technology extends one of our senses, a new translation of culture occurs as swiftly as the new technology is interiorized.

The humanly contrived environment of electric information and power has begun to take precedence over the old environment of nature. Nature, as it were, begins to be the content of our technology.

Nature is an item contained in a man-made environment of satellites and information.

Each new technology is a reprogramming of sensory life.

Language does for intelligence what the wheel does for the feet and the body. It enables them to move from thing to thing with greater ease and speed and less involvement.

Languages are environments to which the child relates synesthetically.

After childhood, the senses specialize via the channels of dominant technologies and social weaponries.

Every mode of technology is a reflex of our most intimate psychological experience.

The most human thing about us is our technology.

All media exist to invest our lives with artificial perception and arbitrary values.

The media have substituted themselves for the older world.

The media work us over completely. They are so pervasive in their personal, political, economic, aesthetic, psychological, moral, ethical, and social consequences that they leave no part of us untouched, unaffected, unaltered. The medium is the massage.

The bias of each medium of communication is far more distorting that the deliberate lie.

People don’t actually read newspapers. They step into them every morning like a hot bath.

The TV camera has no shutter. It does not deal with aspects or facets of objects in high resolution. It is a means of direct pick-up by the electrical groping over surfaces.

Radio comes to us ostensibly with person to person directness that is private and intimate, while in more urgent fact, it is really a subliminal echo chamber of magic power to touch remote and forgotten chords.

With the TV, came the icon, the inclusive image, the inclusive political posture or stance.

New media are new archetypes, at first disguised as degradations of older media.

In television, images are projected at you. You are the screen. The images wrap around you. You are the vanishing point.

The discarnate TV user lives in a world between fantasy and dream, and is in a typically hypnotic state, which is the ultimate form and level of participation.

One of the many effects of television on radio has been to shift radio from an entertainment medium into a kind of nervous informaton system.

The TV generation is postliterate and retribalized. It seeks by violence to scrub the old private image and to merge in a new tribal identity, like any corporate executive.

The subliminal depths of radio are charged with the resonating echoes of tribal horns and antique drums. This is inherent in the very nature of this medium, with its power to turn the psyche and society into a single echo chamber.

Only puny secrets need protection. Big secrets are protected by public incredulity. You can actually dissipate a situation by giving it maximal coverage. As to alarming people, that’s done by rumors, not by coverage.

The stock market was created by the telegraph and the telephone, and its panics are engineered by carefully orchestrated stories in the press.

The unformulated message of an assembly of news items from every quarter of the globe is that the world today is one city. All war is civil war.

The press is a group confessional form that provides communal participation. The book is a private confessional form that provides a &ldquo;point of view.&rdquo;

In an age of multiple and massive innovations, obsolescence becomes the major obsession.

Every innovation scraps its immediate predecessor and retrieves still older figures&mdash;it causes floods of antiques or nostalgic art forms and stimulates the search for &ldquo;museum pieces.&rdquo;

Obsolescence is the moment of superabundance.

Every process pushed far enough tends to reverse or flip suddenly. Chiasmus&mdash;the reversal of process caused by increasing its speed, scope or size.

All meaning alters with acceleration, because all patterns of personal and political interdependence change with any acceleration of information.

All of man’s artifacts, whether hardware or software, whether bulldozers or laws of chemistry, are alike linguistic in structure and intent.

The meaning of experience is typically one generation behind the experience. The content of new situations, both private and corporate, is typically the preceding situation.

It is the medium that shapes and controls the scale and form of human association and action.

The content or time-clothing of any medium or culture is the preceding medium or culture.

The audience, as ground, shapes and controls the work of art.

All words at every level of prose and poetry and all devices of language and speech derive their meaning from figure/ground relation.

All words, in every language, are metaphors.

Logic is figure without a ground.

Human perception is literally incarnation.

Language alone includes all the senses in interplay at all times.

Color is not so much a visual as a tactile medium.

Our senses are not receptors so much as reactors and makers of different modalities of space. Perhaps touch is not just skin contact with things, but the very life of things in the mind.

Chinese script is not visual but iconic and tactile. It does not disturb the tribal bonds.

There is no connection between the elements in an electric world, which is equivalent to being surrounded by the human unconscious.

The pre-atomist multisensory void was an animate, pulsating and moving vibrant interval, neither container nor contained&mdash;acoustic space penetrated by tactility.

The greatest propaganda in the world is our mother tongue, that what we learn as children, and which we learn unconsciously. That shapes our perceptions for life.

Language is a form of organized stutter.

The new electric environment of simultaneous and diversified information creates acoustic man. He is surrounded by sound&mdash;from behind, from the side, from above. His environment is made up of information in all kinds of simultaneous forms, and he puts on this electric environment as we put on our clothes, or as the fish puts on water.

Language is a sense, like touch.

The 4 aspects of each of the media actually constitute the four features of all metaphors. In other words, all human technologies whatever are, in the fullest sense, linguistic outerings, or utterings, of man. Prose is the private drama; poetry is the corporate drama.

All media of communications are clichés serving to enlarge man’s scope of action, his patterns of association and awareness. These media create environments that numb our powers of attention by sheer pervasiveness.

The reader is the content of any poem or of the language he employs, and in order to use any of these forms, he must put them on.

Typography extended its character to the regulation and fixation of languages. The divorce of poetry and music was first reflected by the printed page.

The reduction of the tactile qualities of life and language constitute the refinement sought in the Renaissance and repudiated now in the electronic age.

Percepts of existence always lie behind concepts of nature.

At the speed of light, political policies and parties yield place to charismatic images.

By simply moving information and brushing information against information, any medium whatever creates vast wealth.

By surpassing writing, we have regained our wholeness, not on a national or cultural but cosmic plane.

Dialectic functions by converting everything it touches into figure. But metaphor is a means of perceiving one thing in terms of another.

Each of our senses makes its own space, but no sense can function in isolation. Only as sight relates to touch, or kinaesthesia, or sound, can the eye see.

Effects are perceived, whereas causes are conceived. Effects always precede causes in the actual developmental order.

Environments are not just containers but are processes that change the content totally.

For me any of the little gestures I make are all tentative probes. That’s why I feel free to make them sound as outrageous or extreme as possible. Until you make it extreme, the probe is not very efficient.

Great ages of innovation are the ages in which entire cultures are junked or scrapped.

I am a pattern watcher.

If a work of art is to explore new environments, it is not to be regarded as a blueprint but rather as a form of action-painting.

In Chinese, honest is the figure of a man standing, physically standing, beside his work. That means honesty: a man stands by his work. Two things: figure/ground.

In the electric age we wear all mankind as our skin.

Instead of scurrying into a corner and wailing about what media are doing to us, one should charge straight ahead and kick them in the electrodes.

Man in the electronic age has no possible environment except the globe and no possible occupation except information-gathering.

Man works when he is partially involved. When he is totally involved, he is at play or at leisure.

Money is a corporate image, depending on society for its institutional status.

My method is vertical rather than horizontal so the scenery does not change but the texture does.

Omnipresence has become an ordinary human dimension…

Paradox is the technique for seizing the conflicting aspects of any problem. Paradox coalesces or telescopes various facets of a complex process in a single instant.

Phenomenology is dialectic in ear-mode…a massive and decentralized quest for roots, for ground…

Privacy invasion is now one of our biggest knowledge industries.

Sentimentality, like pornography, is fragmented emotion; a natural consequence of a high visual gradient in any culture.

The alphabet, when pushed to a high degree of abstract visual intensity, became typography. The printed word with its specialist intensity burst the bonds of medieval corporate guilds and monasteries, creating extreme individualist patterns of enterprise and monopoly.

The bible belt is oral territory and therefore despised by the literati.

The coverage is the war. If there were no coverage…there’d be no ware. Yes, the newsmen and the mediamen around the world are actually the fighters, not the soldiers anymore.

The criminal, like the artist, is a social explorer.

The images of mankind have become the most basic thing about them. And they’re all software, and disembodied.

The invention of printing did away with anonymity, fostering ideas of literary fame and the habit of considering intellectual effort as private property.

The magic of the cave image lies in its being, not in its being seen. The symbolic does not refer. It is.

The mask, like the side-show freak, is mainly participatory rather than pictorial in its sensory appeal.

The medium is the message.

The more data banks record about us, the less we exist.

The new science of communication is percept, not concept.

The nuclear bomb will turn warfare into the juggling of images.

Without an understanding of formal causality there can be no theory of communication. What passes as information theory today is not communication at all, but merely transportation. The potential of any new technology is always dissipated by its users’ involvement in its predecessors.

The present is always invisible because it’s environmental. No environment is perceptible, simply because it saturates the whole field of attention.

The professional tends to classify and to specialize, to accept uncritically the ground rules of the environment. The ground rules provided by the mass response of his colleagues serves as a pervasive environment of which his is contentedly unaware.

The sculptural qualities of the image dim down the purely personal identity.

The sociologist permits himself to see only what is acceptable to his colleagues.

The specialist is one who never makes small mistakes while moving toward the grand fallacy.

By electricity we have not been driven out of our senses so much as our senses have been driven out of us. Today man’s nerves surround us&mdash;they have gone outside as electrical environment.

Violence is the effort to maintain and restore a weakened psyche.

Visual space is the space of detachment. Audible-tactile space is the space of involvement.

War has become the environment of our time if only because it is an accelerated form of innovation and education.

War is never anything less than accelerated technological change.

We are swiftly moving at present from an era when business was our culture into an era when culture will be our business. Between these poles stand the huge and ambiguous entertainment industries.

We look at the present through a rear-view mirror. We march backwards into the future.

World War I a railway war of centralization and encirclement.<br>World War II a radio war of decentralization concluded by the Bomb.<br>World War III a TV guerrilla war with no division between civil and military fronts.

The electric light is pure information. It is a medium without a message.

The human family now exists under conditions of a global village. We live in a single constricted space resonant with tribal drums.